# Individual Contribution - Yasin

This project is an individual project, with the tutor's permission, so it was created entirely by me. This involved: the concept, coding the p5.js, creating the visual style, testing the game, commenting the code, and writing the documentation.
My project is called Pop-Up Panic. It's a browser game created with p5.js that is comprised of a fake computer desktop that's overwhelmed with pop-up windows. The player has to close the pop-ups before too many are created. The second mini-game, System Recovery, is triggered when there's too much clutter on the desktop, and the user must repair the broken file icons before the timer expires.
In coding, I created the structure of the game using different game states. These were the start screen, main pop-up game, overloaded screen, recovery mini-game, final restored screen and the failed recovery screen. I created variables to determine which screen to show at certain points in time: "startScreen", "gameOver", "recoveryMode", "finalScreen", and "recoveryFailed".
All of the pop-up windows are stored in an array in the main pop-up section. The position, size and message of each pop-up are unique and randomised. Pop-ups randomly appear in different locations and get increasingly more difficult to control due to the spawn rate going higher each click. The player closes them by clicking on the red X close button. This was accomplished by determining whether the mouse cursor was within the close button area, and if it was, that was interpreted as a mouse click on the close button.
I also added a scoring system to the main game. Each time a pop-up is closed, the player's score is raised. If there are 12 pop-up windows, the desktop is overloaded and the player proceeds to the next part of the game.
Later, the recovery mini-game was added to give a sense of completion to the project. Here, the file icons are broken and the player has to click on them before the time is up. The file icons were manually positioned in such a way that it seemed as though there was a lot to do on the screen, but that it was still easy to play. I opted to use "millis()" for the timer as I could display the time left in decimal format.
I wanted the game to look like a desktop game, as far as the visual design could go at least. I changed the desktop background to a flat blue colour, applied simple icons, a taskbar, pop-up windows, red close buttons and file icons. The graphics were made with basic shapes, e.g. rectangles, and text in p5.js, for most of them. The plain style was intentional, so as not to be too polished, or too obscure.
I was also involved in the humour and tone of the project. I compiled a list of bogus pop-up messages such as silly system warnings and smartass computer errors. This helped to individualise the game and make it less generic. There's also a connection to the main theme of digital overload, as the pop-ups are annoying and somewhat ridiculous.
A difficulty that I faced was keeping the code organised as the project grew. The idea for this game was to make it a pop-up closing game, but I added the recovery mini-game, more screens and a timer. I split the various functions of the project so that making the pop-ups, drawing the desktop, drawing the recovery screen, restarting the game and other tasks were easier.
The other challenge was making sure that my game stayed simple and amateur in the way I wanted it to be. I didn't go for highly complex graphics, high level animation or fancy effects as I wanted the game to feel much like a small handcrafted browser game. 
I played around with the game a few times, changing the frequency of pop-ups, the number of windows needed to lose, the number of broken files and the recovery time. I chose a 6.7 second timer as it seemed quick and hectic, but not impossible in the recovery area. Eventually I found the combination of everything that felt just right.
This project taught me that arrays are a great tool to have for interactive projects in p5.js. The pop-ups and the broken files were array based, which makes it easier to add and remove objects from the screen. I also gained some understanding about mouse hit detection and checking if the mouse was in a particular area of the canvas.
I also gained a better understanding of using game states. This was extremely important as there were a number of screens and sections to this project. I used a number of states to move from the start screen to the main game, then to the recovery section and then to the success/failure screen.
In the future I would have made the game more challenging, included more animation, and added sound effects. I did develop the final version a little beyond the simple pop-up concept, but I didn't want the code to become too complicated and didn't want to make the look too complicated.
In general my job was to complete the project. I created the graphics, wrote the pop-up messages, tested the interactivity, wrote the documentation, and coded the main game and the recovery mini-game. The end result is very simple, but does have a theme, original graphics, interaction, humour, and a full structure.

